词     一个或者多个汉字组成的有意义的 word token
词素  词素是词的组成成分,是语言中语音和语义的最小结合体.  就是一个汉字   morpheme

有的汉字实际上代表着几个不同的词素。如：“副”这个字就起码代表三个词素——“副1”：表示“第二的、次级的”的意思；“副2”：表示“相配、相称”的意思；“副3”：表示某种事物的计量单位。

二、同一词素也可以同时由不同的汉字来表示，如：“来吧”的“吧”也可以写成“罢”。

三、一个汉字还可以包含两个词素。如：“俩”、“仨”，它们实际上分别都包含了两个词素“两个”、“三个”。

四、有些汉字在某些场合代表词素，在某些场合又不代表词素。如：“沙”“巧”“马”等字在“泥沙”“恰巧”“马路”里，它们有意义，都分别是词素；可是在“沙发”“巧克力”“马达”里，它们都不表示意义，都不是词素，只是作为一个音节的代表。



semantics   语义学；符号学
lexicon 词典；词汇
lemma

semantics typically concerns itself with truth conditions, pragmatics deals with how context influences meanings.

Grammar comprises the system of rules which governs the form of the utterances in a given language. It encompasses both sound and meaning, and includesphonology (how sounds function and pattern together), morphology (the formation and composition of words), and syntax (the formation and composition of phrases and sentences from these words)

Linguistics 


	* Phonetics, the study of the physical properties of speech sound production and perception
	* Phonology, the study of sounds as abstract elements in the speaker's mind that distinguish meaning (phonemes)
	* Morphology, the study of morphemes, or the internal structures of words and how they can be modified
	* Syntax, the study of how words combine to form grammatical sentences
	* Semantics, the study of the meaning of words (lexical semantics) and fixed word combinations (phraseology), and how these combine to form the meanings of sentences
	* Pragmatics, the study of how utterances are used in communicative acts, and the role played by context and non-linguistic knowledge in the transmission of meaning
	* Discourse analysis, the analysis of language use in texts (spoken, written, or signed)
	* Stylistics, the study of linguistic factors (rhetoric, diction, stress) that place a discourse in context
	* Semiotics, the study of signs and sign processes (semiosis), indication, designation, likeness, analogy, metaphor, symbolism, signification, and communication.


sighan special interesting group for han. 汉语特别兴趣小组。

corpora  全集
corpus  文集
平行语料库（parallel corpus）通常是由双语或多语的对应语料构成
平衡语料库（balanced corpus）主要是指其语料的取样上是均衡的，有代表性的

wordform 词形  单词出现的形式，比如说cat 和 cats 是二个不同的形式。
lemma 词目  是具有同一词干，同一主题词，同一词行的词汇形式的集合。
so for lemmatization will  map are/is/were to be
or map cat/cats/cat's  to cat

stem 
type 形   和wordform 一个意思
token 例  单词的数目，也就是词典的大小。

noun
preposition
adjective
adverb
verb













